FAQ
===

## What's the view on GitHub projects fishing for Stars?

I think: There's nothing wrong with asking for Stars when the author has open-sourced the code.

The origin of open-source software is free software. RMS created free software to oppose proprietary software, i.e., privatized software. If an open-source project only reveals the source code after you Star it, that violates the principles.

Open-sourcing a piece of software doesn't mean: You can't use this open-source software to pursue any benefits. In the so-called open-source movement, open-source software can be sold for money. But in China, this is difficult. Big companies like Tencent can easily use your software without complying with the GPL license.

At such times, there's no law to protect these open-source software authors. You can only condemn them morally and hope their superiors take some action. Like the previous incident: "[A well-known company (Nubia/ZTE) used my open-source software (XXL-JOB) to apply for a national intellectual property patent. What should I do?](https://link.zhihu.com/?target=https%3A//www.v2ex.com/t/367424%3Fp%3D1)".

And for most open-source software authors, it's unlikely they can support their development from income generated by the open-source software, like the authors of OpenResty, Vue, emqtt, etc. A small minority might gain some benefits from open-source software, improving their KPI this year. Then their salary might increase a bit next year.

But most people don't have this possibility. I have close to 30k Stars on GitHub (laughs, nearly 20k belong to e-books, after all, ideas change the world). It doesn't affect my salary increase at all. Instead, I gained a GitHub "influencer" title. You know, in the tech field, "influencer" isn't a good term. I've observed many open-source enthusiasts who are probably worse off than me. They did excellent work, but because they didn't do good promotion, they didn't even get a few Stars and eventually abandoned the project.

At such times, asking for Stars is just to feel better, 'I've done so much, I hope for some recognition.' If I'm in a WeChat group, see the author making many commits, spending effort, at that moment, I will give the author a Star. Because I have many followers on GitHub, it often brings a few more Stars.

If someone in the open-source world does a lot of work but doesn't get a single Star, they might leave the open-source world. When this happens often, the number of people in the open-source world decreases. Anyone doing open-source work deserves encouragement—no matter their purpose.